(UNIVERSITY OF DELHI) KALKAJI, NEW DELHI SELF STUDY REPORT SUBMITTED TO NATIONAL ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION COUNCIL BANGALORE 2015 (UNIVERSITY OF DELHI) KALKAJI, NEW DELHI SELF STUDY REPORT SUBMITTED TO NATIONAL ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION COUNCIL BANGALORE 2015 CONTENTS PREFACE i EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 1 SWOC ANALYSIS 7 PROFILE 9 CRITERION I : Curricular Aspects 17 CRITERION II : Teaching, Learning and Evaluation 31 CRITERION III : Research and Consultancy 47 CRITERION IV : Infrastructure and Learning Resources 71 CRITERION V : Student Support and Progression 89 CRITERION VI : Governance and Leadership 123 CRITERION VII : Innovations and Best Practices 143 EVALUATIVE REPORTS OF DEPARTMENTS 151 ANNEXURES 271 PREFACE The Ramanujan College, formerly known as Deshbandhu College (Evening) was established in 1958 by the Ministry of Rehabilitation, Government of India, in the memory of Late Lala Deshbandhu Gupta, a patriot who had dedicated his life to the national freedom struggle. The Deshbandhu College (Evening) operated from the premises of the Deshbandhu College that functioned in the morning hours. Originally run by the Ministry of Rehabilitation and Education as a men's College, Deshbandhu College (Evening) became a co-educational institution in 1994. This College, which is 100% funded by the University Grants Commission (UGC) has been maintained by the University of Delhi since 1972. Till the early 90's the College catered to a large number of students who were gainfully employed in the daytime and pursued their studies in the convenience provided by an evening College. During its initial years the College used to function in the late evening hours and developed as a reputed College especially in the field of Commerce studies. Other than B. Com (Honours) and B.Com, the College offered B.A. Programme and Honours courses in English, Hindi and Political Science to its students. The College was also unique because it offered the study of regional languages: Punjabi, Bengali and Sindhi. Late Dr. M.L. Jotwani, an eminent scholar of Sindhi literature and language was a member of the College teaching faculty and did the College proud when he received the Padma Shri in 2003. In spite of being an evening College that was sharing space and infrastructure with another College, Deshbandhu College (Evening) regularly produced good results in academics and sports. Champion athletes, especially in the fields of power lifting and weight lifting, won University, state and national level acclaim. In the year 2010, the College got a new identity when the University of Delhi along with UGC and the MHRD renamed Deshbandhu College (Evening) as Ramanujan College, and allocated separate space of seven acres of land within the existing College campus in Kalkaji, New Delhi. From an evening College it become a full-fledged morning College in 2012. The College was given a go ahead to design and construct an independent building and create infrastructure of its own. We are proud that our College is named after Srinivasa Aiyangar Ramanujan (1887-1920) the legendary Indian mathematician, who during his short lifetime compiled nearly 3900 mathematical results that made him one of the world's greatest-ever mathematical genius. Though the plans are ready and all permissions and sanctions have been acquired for the construction of a new building in the land allocated to our College, the College is yet to get funds to construct its own building. Nevertheless, in the past four years, we have been able to immensely develop the space and resources available to us. We have constructed twenty six spacious, well ventilated, ICT enabled portable cabins and created additional space, infrastructure and facilities for more class rooms, auditorium and laboratories. We are in the process of constructing ten additional portable cabins. Additional staff rooms, extra washrooms, rooms for different centres of academic excellence and a Ramanujan College, University of Delhi i renovated library with air conditioned reading rooms have been constructed for students and teachers. We have added generators for uninterrupted power supply and augmented our water supply system and provided continuous RO filtered drinking water for our students, teachers and the non-teaching staff. Many air-conditioned spaces have been created in the office, staffroom, library, auditorium and activity halls for the comfort of all. We have kept the needs of the physically disabled as a priority in our developmental schemes. Our dependence on shared infrastructure has reduced considerably through our own efforts. Today, the Ramanujan College offers Honours degree courses in Commerce, Mathematics, Computer Science, Economics, Statistics, Psychology, English, Hindi and Political Science. It continues to offer B.A. Programme and B.Com courses as before. It is the third largest College for Commerce education in the University of Delhi. The College looks forward to a large expansion which is i
[...]
ed national and state competitive exams: NA 29. Student Progression: Our department is a new department in the college. We are going to keep track of our outgoing students with a proposed alumni network. 30. Details of Infrastructural facilities : (a) Library: There is no separate departmental library. But there is a section in College library with sufficient books for our students. YEAR Books Cost of Total added Books Books (Rs.) 2013-14 63 23216/- 248 NOTE:- The list of Journals / Magazines subscribed are attached separately. (b) Internet facility for Staff & Students: The college has full-fledged wired as well WiFi facility for Internet. (c) Class rooms with ICT facility: All class rooms are fully equipped with projector and Internet facility. (d) Laboratories: College has two Computer labs with more than 100 computers. 31. Number of Students receiving financial assistance from college, University, government or other agencies. 2 32. Details on student enrichment programmes (special lectures/workshops/ seminar) with external experts: NIL Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 267 33. Teaching methods adopted to improve student learning and extension activities: There have been several extra classes held to sort out subject related problems. Several lecture notes as well as video lectures been also been provided to the students to understand the subject effectively. We teach subject via social practical problems and try to limit the use of chalk and board as theoretical classes. 34. Participation in Institutional Social Responsibility (ISR) and Extension activities: Students are actively engaged in NSS, JAZBA, Innovation Projects, Eco club and various other activities. 35. SWOC analysis of the department and future plans (Strength, Weakness, Opportunities, Challenges) Strength Ÿ Dedicated and hardworking Faculty Ÿ Cooperation among faculty members Ÿ Research Oriented Young Faculty Weakness Ÿ Student Intake from comparatively lower academic performers Ÿ Shortage of Space Opportunities Ÿ Induction of new younger faculty with new vision may increase the research output of the Department. Ÿ Introduction of technologically advanced teaching aids in class rooms may enhance learning due to increased visual impact. Challenges Ÿ To create students as self-learners Ÿ To make each student get interested in the subject. Ÿ Students will have more scientific thinking towards the social issues. Ÿ To motivate the students to become good human beings. Future Plans To introduce research activities in the department by acquiring sophisticated instruments and approval of grants for projects from various funding agencies like DBT, DST etc. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 268 List of Newspapers and magazines consulted by Faculty Newspapers MAGAZINES Hindustan Times Arogya Dham Hindi The Times Of India Digit The Indian Express Economics & Political Weekly The Hindu Employment News (English) The Statesman Hans (Hindi) The Economic Times India Today Rastitya Sahara Kadambani (Hindi) The Hindu Students Outlook Navbharat Times (Hindi) Outlook (Hindi) Economic Times (Hindi) Pratiyogita Darpan (Hindi) Dainik Jagran (Hindi) Reader‘s Digest Jansatta (Hindi) Rojgar Samachar Business Standard Sports Star Hindustan (Hindi) Dalal Street Hindustan Times Students Business Today Panjab Kesari Competition Wizard Jansatta Students The Week Financial Express Frontline Business line Gyanodya Danik Bhaskar Kalhadesh Alochana Tehelkas Civil Service Chronicle Science Reporter Pratiyogita Kiran Discussant Library & Information Science Down to Earth Open Indian Journal of Library Science Journal of Contemporary Literature English Criticism Forbes Business Insider Chip Insider Nat-Geo Math Today Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 269 ANNEXURES 1. Certificate for change of College name. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 272 2. Certificate of Recognition of College under 2(f) & 12 (B). Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 273 3. Certificate of affiliation to University of Delhi. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 274 4. Certificate of University of Delhi maintained college. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 275 5. Certificate of separation from Deshbandhu College. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 276 6. Certificate of affiliation of Ramanujan College. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 277 7. Statement of Income and Expenditure Accounts 2011 Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 278 8. Statement of Income and Expenditure Accounts 2012 Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 279 9. Statement of Income and Expenditure Accounts 2013 Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 280 10. Statement of Income and Expenditure Accounts 2014 Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 281 11. Declaration by the Principal. Ramanujan College, University of Delhi 282 Ramanujan College (University of Delhi) F-Block, Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019 Tel.: 26430192 Fax: 26421826 E-mail: ramanujancollege2010@gmail.com Website: www.ramanujancollege.ac.in