=== Criterion VI: Governance and Leadership ===

The Ramanujan College is governed by a Governing Body, which is constituted
               by the University of Delhi. The Governing Body is headed by the Chairman. The
               College is proud to have many distinguished individuals as its Chairman.
                                                                                  
               The present Governing Body is extremely supportive of the College's present and
               future plans. The Principal of the College provides the leadership and executes
               the decisions taken by the Governing Body. The Principal is also the Chairperson
               of the College Staff Council and its committees. Most of the activities of the
               College are managed by the Staff Council-constituted committees. The
               College is managed through a democratic process of collective decision-making
               and participative management.                                      
                                                                                  
               The College is 100% financed by the University of Delhi and the UGC. The
               accounts of the College are audited internally by the University of Delhi and
               by the CAG externally. The College is bound by the Right to Information Act and
               has a Public Information Officer to address all queries filed under the RTI. The
               College has acquired the ISO 9001:2008 Certification for Office Proceedings.
                                                                                  
               Performance appraisal of the faculty is done as per the University guidelines.
               With the initiatives of the IQAC, the feedback system from the students and the
               faculty has been formalised. The IQAC has been able to initiate reformative
               processes within the College, particularly in the area of teaching-learning
               and evaluation practices.