=== CRITERION III: Research and Consultancy ===

As an undergraduate constituent College of the University of Delhi, research
               possibilities in the College are limited. Nevertheless, the College promotes and
               encourages research by its faculty and tries to inculcate research-oriented
               academics for its students. Various FDPs, workshops and seminars are
                                                                                  
               organized by the College to encourage faculty research. Regular paper
               presentations and original project work by the students is an integral part of the
               pedagogic process in the College. The College has been sanctioned three
               Innovation Projects, which have research components in it, by the  
               University of Delhi. With the introduction of the Robotics and Artificial
               Intelligence Laboratory and the Ramanujan Centre for Applied       
               Mathematics and Research, the College is now moving into areas of  
               advanced research. Individually, the teachers of the College have done
               independent research in their fields and have been regularly presenting and
               publishing their research works in books and both national and international
               journals. The present faculty has 160 research publications and 66 books to
               its credit. The faculty is also engaged in providing their scholarship as resource
               to other academic institutions. To keep abreast with the latest in the field, the
                                                                                  
               College has been inviting imminent speakers and experts from across the country
               for special lectures in the College. In the past two years more than 40 such
               scholars have visited the College. As a part of inter-disciplinary approaches to
               research, the College has been having inter-departmental workshops and
               Faculty Development Programmes. The Centre for Ethics and Values plays
               a crucial role in promoting extension activities of the College by engaging the
               faculty and the students in innovative manners. It is done by liasoning the
               Institution with the immediate neighbourhood and the society at large. The
               Centre for Ethics and Values has published three volumes of the International
               Journal of Applied Ethics. Five members of the faculty have also received awards
               and recognition for their research work.