=== CRITERION VII : Innovations and Best Practices   143 ===

EVALUATIVE REPORTS OF DEPARTMENTS                151               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               ANNEXURES                                        271               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                     PREFACE                                      
                                                                                  
               The Ramanujan College, formerly known as Deshbandhu College (Evening) was
               established in 1958 by the Ministry of Rehabilitation, Government of India, in the
               memory of Late Lala Deshbandhu Gupta, a patriot who had dedicated his life to
               the national freedom struggle. The Deshbandhu College (Evening) operated
               from the premises of the Deshbandhu College that functioned in the morning
               hours. Originally run by the Ministry of Rehabilitation and Education as a men's
                                                                                  
               College, Deshbandhu College (Evening) became a co-educational institution in
               1994. This College, which is 100% funded by the University Grants Commission
               (UGC) has been maintained by the University of Delhi since 1972.   
                                                                                  
               Till the early 90's the College catered to a large number of students who were
               gainfully employed in the daytime and pursued their studies in the convenience
               provided by an evening College. During its initial years the College used to
               function in the late evening hours and developed as a reputed College especially
               in the field of Commerce studies. Other than B. Com (Honours) and B.Com, the
               College offered B.A. Programme and Honours courses in English, Hindi and
               Political Science to its students. The College was also unique because it offered
               the study of regional languages: Punjabi, Bengali and Sindhi. Late Dr. M.L.
               Jotwani, an eminent scholar of Sindhi literature and language was a member of
               the College teaching faculty and did the College proud when he received the
               Padma Shri in 2003.                                                
                                                                                  
               In spite of being an evening College that was sharing space and infrastructure
               with another College, Deshbandhu College (Evening) regularly produced good
               results in academics and sports. Champion athletes, especially in the fields of
               power lifting and weight lifting, won University, state and national level acclaim.
                                                                                  
               In the year 2010, the College got a new identity when the University of Delhi
               along with UGC and the MHRD renamed Deshbandhu College (Evening) as
               Ramanujan College, and allocated separate space of seven acres of land within
               the existing College campus in Kalkaji, New Delhi. From an evening College it
                                                                                  
               become a full-fledged morning College in 2012. The College was given a go
               ahead to design and construct an independent building and create infrastructure
               of its own.                                                        
                                                                                  
               We are proud that our College is named after Srinivasa Aiyangar Ramanujan
               (1887-1920) the legendary Indian mathematician, who during his short lifetime
               compiled nearly 3900 mathematical results that made him one of the world's
               greatest-ever mathematical genius.                                 
                                                                                  
               Though the plans are ready and all permissions and sanctions have been acquired
               for the construction of a new building in the land allocated to our College, the
               College is yet to get funds to construct its own building. Nevertheless, in the past
               four years, we have been able to immensely develop the space and resources
               available to us. We have constructed twenty six spacious, well ventilated, ICT
               enabled portable cabins and created additional space, infrastructure and
               facilities for more class rooms, auditorium and laboratories. We are in the
               process of constructing ten additional portable cabins. Additional staff rooms,
               extra washrooms, rooms for different centres of academic excellence and a
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              i              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               renovated library with air conditioned reading rooms have been constructed for
               students and teachers.                                             
                                                                                  
               We have added generators for uninterrupted power supply and augmented our
               water supply system and provided continuous RO filtered drinking water for our
               students, teachers and the non-teaching staff. Many air-conditioned spaces have
               been created in the office, staffroom, library, auditorium and activity halls for the
               comfort of all. We have kept the needs of the physically disabled as a priority in
                                                                                  
               our developmental schemes. Our dependence on shared infrastructure has
               reduced considerably through our own efforts.                      
               Today, the Ramanujan College offers Honours degree courses in Commerce,
                                                                                  
               Mathematics, Computer Science, Economics, Statistics, Psychology, English,
               Hindi and Political Science. It continues to offer B.A. Programme and B.Com
               courses as before. It is the third largest College for Commerce education in the
               University of Delhi. The College looks forward to a large expansion which is in
               tune with contemporary academic and professional requirements of our country.
               In the near future we seek to introduce Honours courses in Journalism in English,
               History, Bachelor of Business Studies (BBS) and Philosophy. We have also
               applied to the UGC for eight proposed programmes under the Deen Dayal
               Upadhyay Centres for Knowledge Acuisition and Upgradation of Skilled
               Human Abilities and Livelihood (KAUSHAL) scheme. The College has a 
               highly qualified and experienced faculty some of whom are also engaged in post
               graduate teaching at the University. A large number of our teachers have original
               published academic and creative work in reputed national and international
                                                                                  
               journals. Departments of the College regularly organise seminars, workshops
               and special lectures to benefit both students and teachers. We endeavour to make
               our College a centre for excellence in interdisciplinary studies and research.
                                                                                  
               The College has a well stocked, information technology enabled and 
               computerized library, with about 30,000 books including the latest publication
               and journals in all the subjects taught in the College. This, together with state-of-
               the-art computer labs, offers students access to new horizons of learning.
                                                                                  
               A number of academic prizes and scholarships are being offered to meritorious
               students. Financial assistance in the form of fee-concession is given to deserving
               and needy students. Our large playground and good facilities for sports have
               helped us to maintain a tradition of excellence in sports. Our sportspersons
               continue to win various prizes at the University, Delhi State and national levels.
                                                                                  
               One of the new innovative initiatives has been the setting up of the Centre for
               Ethics and Values in 2010. Keeping in mind the pressing need to mould a socially
               concerned and conscientious student with moral and ethical uprightness, this
               centre blends its activities with the regular academic and cultural programmes of
               the College. Other than organising lectures, debates and discussions, the Centre
               encourages introspection and positive thinking and has creatively involved the
               students through internship, summer training, poster making, theatre, art and
               music, in ideas related to ethics and morality. The Centre has organised two
               international and one national level seminars and has published three volumes of
               the International Journal of Applied Ethics. The Centre has also published a book
                                                                                  
               entitled Ethics in Governance (2011).                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              ii             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               The College campus is a lively hub of both academic and co-curricular activities
               which are meant to nurture the all-round development of the students. The
               annual cultural festival of the College JOSH, which attracts students from
               Colleges across the city, is a popular event where students showcase their talents
                                                                                  
               in music, dance, theatre, oration and art and craft. The College has a theatre
               group Jazba that has been winning acclaim for their socially relevant theatre
               presentation. Their evocative street play called Bhook dealing with the issues of
               hunger in our country won the 'Sahitya Kala Parishad Award' for the best street
               play in their inter-college competition in 2015. They have also produced plays
               dealing with consumer awareness for the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. The
               film appreciation club of the College First Cut cultivates the talents of future film
               makers and has produced a number of well made short films. We believe the
               students of the College are its real assets, giving it strength and character.
                                                                                  
               The Ramanujan College won the 'Good Practices Award' in 2014 at the annual
               festival of the University of Delhi – Antardhvani. The College is aspiring for a
               future of growth and development. It seeks to make its place as a foremost
               academic institution in the country.                               
                                                                                  
               This Self Study Report follows the guidelines of the National Assessment and
               Accreditation Council's (NAAC) Manual for Self Study Report for Constituent
               Colleges. The entire teaching faculty and the non-teaching staff of the College
               have worked very hard in the preparation of this report. We have made an
               introspective and honest self study of our college and recorded it in the various
               sections and units of this report. I am privileged to submit this report to the
                                                                                  
               National Assessment and Accreditation Council for assessment and accreditation
               of the institution.                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Principal                                                          
               S.P. Aggarwal                                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi             iii             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                 
                                                                                  
               The Ramanujan College, which began as Deshbandhu College (Evening) in
               1958, remained for more than five decades a college that functioned only in the
               latter half of the day. In spite of the fact that the College had a reputation of being a
               good educational institute that catered to the academic needs of the students who
               were employed during the day time, the College was never taken as seriously as a
               full-time morning college generally is. It was only in 2010, when Deshbandhu
                                                                                  
               College (Evening) was renamed as Ramanujan College and was elevated to the
               status of a full-time morning college with the promise of a building of its own that
               a surge of enthusiasm and renewed commitment galvanized the College towards
               greater heights.                                                   
                                                                                  
               The approach to develop the College was two pronged. Firstly, the College
               sought to provide itself with good infrastructural facilities in terms of more
               classrooms, a multipurpose auditorium, seminar and conference halls and an
               uninterrupted and adequate electricity and water supply. The overall ambiance of
               the college was to be enhanced with an aesthetically pleasing environment
               constituting lawns, gardens and pathways. The second initiative was to expand
               the academic spectrum of the College through the introduction of new courses,
               centers of excellence and providing the students with the opportunity of various
               extracurricular activities.                                        
                                                                                  
               In the past five years, much of the developmental objectives of the College have
               been achieved despite the fact that we have not received funds to proceed with the
               construction of the new College building, though plans and permission have been
               sanctioned and obtained for it.                                    
                                                                                  
               The College offers courses in Commerce, Humanities and Science. The College
               has a faculty of 97 teachers (permanent, ad-hoc and part time), 53 non-teaching
               staff and 2 technical staff, and about 2,000 students.             
                                                                                  
               Presented below are the brief summaries of the seven criteria of evaluation used
               in the Self Study Report: