=== Criterion V: Student Support and Progression ===

The College every year publishes its Prospectus at the time of admissions,
               detailing the aims and objectives of the Institution, and uploads it on the website.
               The details regarding the courses and rules and regulations are also mentioned in
               the Prospectus. There are a number of Staff Council Committees that are
               responsible for various activities of the College. The Institution offers a number
               of academic prizes and scholarships to the meritorious students. The College has
               a Students Aid Fund through which financial assistance is provided to the
               economically weak students. The College provides financial assistance to the
               students who represent the College in different extracurricular activities.
                                                                                  
               Academic support to the students is provided on a regular basis with extra classes
               and remedial classes. On Sundays and holidays, general computer training
               classes are held for all the students. Classes to train Hindi typing on
               computers are also regularly held. The Personality and English Enhancement
               Course, the Human Rights Course and Certificate Course in French Language are
               added learning incentives to the students, keeping the market demands in mind.
                                                                                  
               The Computer Science Department and the Mathematics Department also
               conduct special computer software training classes. The College in association
               with the National Institute of Entrepreneurship and Small Business has
               trained over 500 students in various aspects of Entrepreneurship.  
                                                                                  
               The College supports the students in their extracurricular activities and has
               societies for dance, music, art, films theatre and debating. It also promotes NCC
               and NSS programmes. A large number of students are involved in these activities.
               The Annual Cultural Festival – JOSH is a platform for the students to
               showcase their talents and skills. The students of the Ramanujan have been
               consistently winning prizes at inter-college competitions especially in theatre,
               music and film making. The Centre for Ethics and Values does outreach
               programmes and involve the students with the larger social issues. 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              4              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               The Department of Physical Education and Sports Sciences has provided
               facilities for various sports activities in the college. The talented sports persons
               are supported through special dietary supplements, uniform and     
               equipments. The College bears the expenses for their participation in various
                                                                                  
               competitions both in the city and outside.                         
               The College Placement Cell regularly invites corporate houses for student
               counselling and recruitment. The College has been able to successfully place a
                                                                                  
               number of its students every year in the private sector.           
               The College Grievance Redressal Cell and the Sexual Harassment Prevention
               Committee keep a strict vigil. In case of complaints, immediate decisions and
                                                                                  
               actions are taken.                                                 
               For the past five years, the students of the College have shown improvement in
               their performance in the University Examinations. The total number of first
                                                                                  
               divisions has been rising consistently. More than 50% of our students
               secured First Division in the last academic year.                  
               The Ramanujan College alumni meet annually in a gala get together. The
                                                                                  
               College has begun to take feedback from its alumni in order to create a data
               bank of information.