=== Criterion II: Teaching, Learning and Evaluation ===

The Ramanujan College considers its smooth and efficient admission process as
               one of its best practices. This ensures that the students who are admitted to the
               College establish a warm bonding with the Institution. This bonding is reflected
               in the cordial relations between the teacher and the student, which goes a long
               way to ensure a healthy teaching-learning process. In accordance to the rules of
                                                                                  
               the University of Delhi regarding admissions, the College have seen a steady rise
               in its cut-off percentages in the past five years, which means academically better
               students are seeking admissions to the College every year. The College
               encourages the women students by giving concessions on cut-off percentage
               as a part of its admission policy. A large number of students from the
               economically weaker section of the society are admitted to the College along
               with students from the North Eastern states of the country. The College also
               admits differently-abled students and provides them with all the support. The
               College helps students with fee concessions, scholarships from the Student's Aid
               Fund and remedial classes are organised to bridge the knowledge gaps and
               support the marginalised students. The faculty has evolved innovative
               approaches for teaching which includes field visits, film screening,
               presentations and project work. The computerised library with about 30,000
                                                                                  
               books is a support to the teaching-learning process with about 500 users
               accessing it every day. The time-table is prepared well in advance in the
               beginning of an academic session so that the teaching can begin from the very
               first day of the session. The syllabus is available on the College website. The
               College has a system of feedback and regular assessment meetings in each
               Department to ensure effective delivery of the syllabus and evaluate the learning
               levels. The College recruits the best of the academic minds and encourages the
               teachers to pursue higher academics, research and knowledge upgradation. The
               College IAQC monitors the data regarding the performances of the students in
               the exams and internal assessments and suggests ways of improvement in the
               teaching-learning process. Policies regarding effective implementation of
               time-tables, extra classes, internal assessment are set by the IAQC in
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              2              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               consultation with the Departments. For the past few years the College, for
               reasons beyond its control, has not been able to recruit permanent faculty and has
               appointed ad-hoc and guest faculty. This has certainly affected the teaching-
               learning process and we hope that with more appointments of permanent faculty,
                                                                                  
               the teaching-learning process will be further strengthened.