=== CRITERION IV: Infrastructure and Learning Resources ===

In the last four years, the College has spent more that Rs. 5 crore on
               augmenting its infrastructure and learning resources. The College has
               invested considerably in constructing 26 porta-cabins for holding classes and
               other activities. We intend to construct another 10 porta-cabins and one more
               computer lab for the next academic year. Arrangements for adequate water
               supply and electricity has also been made. We have spent almost Rs. 18 lacs in
               the financial year 2014-15 on just the purchase and maintenance of 
                                                                                  
               computers. We have 120 computers in our labs and we have distributed 800
               computers (laptops) to the students that were given to the College by the
               University of Delhi. As a resource, we have added the Ramanujan Centre for
               Applied Mathematics and Research, the Robotics and Artificial Intelligence
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              3              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Laboratory, the Centre for Ethics and Values and the Centre for Human
               Rights. We have plans ready for the introduction of a Media Lab in the next
               academic year. As a part of developing sports facilities we have created a 400
               meter long athletic track and a cricket pitch. We also have a gymnasium and a
                                                                                  
               yoga room. The renovated air-conditioned hall, with a seating capacity for
               150 people, is extensively used for special functions, extracurricular and
               cultural activities. The plans and sanctions for the new College building have
               been obtained and the construction will begin as soon as the funds are released.
                                                                                  
               In the financial year 2013-14, the library spent almost Rs. 8 lacs for
               purchasing books. There are almost 30, 000 books in the library. The library
               is equipped with the latest computer technology for issuing of the books and for
               accessing the internet. The library is also connected to data bases of the
               University of Delhi.                                               
                                                                                  
               As infrastructural support and resource the College has constructed ramps,
               accessible washrooms, Braille-enabled sign boards and Braille books for the
               students and faculty with physical disabilities.