=== Criterion I: Curricular Aspects ===

Inspired by the name of the great mathematician, Srinivasa Aiyangar Ramanujan,
               our College adheres to the core values of dedication, hard work and commitment
               as encapsulated in the motto of the University of Delhi. The syllabus and
               curriculum followed by the College is set by the University of Delhi. Some of
               the members of our Faculty are also members of curriculum framing  
               committees of the University Departments. The College caters to almost 50%
               of the students belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society. It is
               a challenge to achieve the curriculum objectives, but the teachers of the College
                                                                                  
               have evolved innovative and effective ways of delivering curriculum content that
               is specifically moulded for the students of our College. The College has
               provided laptops to all its teachers and all the classrooms are ICT enabled
               and the entire campus is Wi-Fi enabled. This has greatly felicitated the
               implementation of the curriculum as important online data bases of research
               journals, which the College and the University subscribes to, are available in the
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               Ramanujan College, University of Delhi              1              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
               classroom as an aid to teaching. The faculty regularly sends feedback to the
               University Departments regarding the curriculum with suggestions for
               restructuring and improvement. With the dynamics of the employment 
               market in mind and with the intention of providing skill development courses, the
                                                                                  
               College has introduced three certificate courses: Certificate Course in Human
               Rights, Personality and English Enhancement Course and Certificate Course in
               French Language. There are plans to introduce four more Honours courses. Now,
               the emphasis is on interdisciplinary and experiential pedagogy that
               integrates issues of gender, language, environment, human rights and
               information technology. The College organises regular seminars, special
               lectures, educational excursions and trips along with faculty development
               programmes and training modules for the effective implementation of the
               curriculum. To evaluate the curriculum delivery and its effectiveness, the
               College Internal Quality Assessment Cell (IQAC) has initiated feedback
               systems for both students and the faculty. The College is also planning to
               introduce an online feedback system for the students from the next academic
               year.